# Design-of-Experiments-for-Hypereparameter-tuning
The goal of this project is to use Design of Expeiments (DoE) to do the hyperparameter tuning for some machine learning models based on an article by Gustavo et al. in:

https://asu.pure.elsevier.com/en/publications/design-of-experiments-and-response-surface-methodology-to-tune-ma

The authors used DoE to do the hyperparameter tunning for Random Forest. They used Fractional Factorial Design and full Factorial Design to find the hyper-parameters with significant effect on the performance of the model. Then they used Response Surface Method (RSM) to find the values for those hyper-parameters (the ones that were recognised in the previous steps) that optimize the performance of the model. 

This work has been done according to the article to produce the results for Random Forest and then try to apply to some other machine learning models.

# General description of the Design of Experiments and some of its method
An experiment is a series of tests to identify the factors that have the greatest effect on the response. By Design of Experiment the number of factors, their ranges of values and number of times to run the experiments are determined to identify the relationship between the factors and the response variable. Sometimes the effect of several factors on a response variable is identified by testing at different levels of factors one at a time which is useful only when there is no interaction between factors. However, since many times factors have interactions with each other then that would be more effective to do the experiments by including all the factors. There are several methods for DoE which are very useful in different context and according to the situation. In this part the methods that was used for hyperparameter tuning will be discissed.
## Two-level Factorial Designs
This method  which is represented as 2\^k includes factors with 2 levels which are identified as low and high levels . The simplest case of this type of method is the experiments with two factors which will result is 2^2=4 runs of runs. The experiment with these factors will show which factors have effect on the response and also it shows the interaction among them if any exists. The number of runs in this type experiment increase when number of factor increases. Generally when number of factors increases to 7 and more it is recommened to use the fractional factorial design which is very useful to reduce the number of runs but at the same time it makes soem of the factors be aliased or confounded. Fractional Factorial design has three characteristics which makes it very efficien. The first one is that in this method very few effects are siginificant and the final model does inculde the high-order terms which are not important in the model. It also, the projection property which is when the model is reduced to the lower dimensinality.It also uses the fold over technique to isolate effect of some of the factors that are more interterest to the experimenter.
## Response Surface Method
When all of the significant factors are recoginsed from fractional anf full factorial designs then the RSM will be used to find the values for those factors at which the response will be optimized. There are two types of RSM including first-oreder and second-order models. For the first-order model the method of Steepest Ascent Model will be used to find the optimum. However, if the first-order model does not fit well then the second-order model will be used. There are two types of designs that can be used for second-order model which include central composite and Box-Behnken Designs. When the design is decided then the second-order model will be applied to find the values for the factors that optimize the response.
# Brief description of DoE for hyper-parameter tunning
In this experiment Fractional factorial and full factorial designs were used to tune the hyper-parameters of a classification Random Forest model. The hyperparameters that were chosen to be tunned were ntree, mtry, replace, cutoff, classwt, nosesize, maxnodes. For each of them two levels were considered to be used in the design. Since the effect of seven factors needs to be eva,uated on the performnace of the model, we need 2^7 = 128 runs with only one replication. As a result, the fractional factorial design will be used which as mentioned before, it considers the fraction of the design and helps reduce the running time. The fractional factorial design with the highest resolution helps not to have aliases for lower effects. It means that main effect are not aliased with higher effects and few two factor effects are aliased with each other and they are not aliased with higher order effects. 
For the fisrt design the fractional design of 2^7-2, $$x=\sqrt{2}$$ is the 



